doc: Document how to administrate metalk8s services (#1944)
scality/metalk8s: docs/operation/account_administration.rst

Account Administration
======================

This section highlights **MetalK8s Account Administration** which covers
changing the default username and password for some MetalK8s services.

Administering Grafana
*********************

A fresh install of MetalK8s has a Grafana service instance with default
credentials: ``admin`` / ``admin``. For more information on how to access
Grafana, please refer to :ref:`this procedure <quickstart-services-grafana>`

Changing Grafana username and password
--------------------------------------

To change the default username and password for Grafana on a MetalK8s cluster,
perform the following procedures:

#. Generate a new Grafana username and password using a **Base64 encoder**
   and note it down.

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ echo -n 'new-username' | base64
      $ echo -n 'new-password' | base64

#. Create a file named ``patch-secret.yaml`` that has following content:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      data:
        admin-password: bmV3cGFzc3dvcmQ=   <-- Replace with base64 password
        admin-user: bmV3cGFzc3dvcmQ=       <-- Replace with base64 username

>         ldap-toml: ""

Reviewer: Let's remove the `base64` encoding for the user, since API Server supports doing it server-side. Use this for the patch file instead:

```
stringData:
  admin-user: <username-in-clear>
  admin-password: <password-in-clear>
```

(Note that we don't need to patch `ldap-toml`)

Also, could be nice mentioning that either one of the two keys can be omitted from this patch, depending on what the user wants to achieve.

#. Apply the patch file by running:

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ kubectl patch secrets prometheus-operator-grafana --patch "$(cat patch-secret.yml)" -n metalk8s-monitoring

#. Verify that the secret was updated successfully.

   .. code-block:: shell

>       $ kubectl get secrets prometheus-operator-grafana --output yaml -n metalk8s-monitoring

Reviewer: Could be omitted, since the output will be base64-encoded

> #. Now, roll out the new updates for the grafana deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Now, roll out the new updates for Grafana.
```

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ kubectl rollout restart deploy prometheus-operator-grafana -n metalk8s-monitoring

#. Access the Grafana instance and authenticate yourself using the new Account
   credentials.

> Administering MetalK8s GUI

Reviewer: This section needs rewording: we are actually changing the Kubernetes API user/password here. Which implies not only changes to the GUI, but also to SaltAPI credentials (we could explain these implications in this document, sure).

Author: Looks like SaltAPI authentication was moved to certificate based auth in the `2.4` branch so, i doubt this has an impact.

Author: https://github.com/scality/metalk8s/pull/1944#issuecomment-544963797 ??

Reviewer 2: I don't think the UI still work when you update the login/password while playing with it. There will be probably some work to do on the UI to force user to log in again by going to the '/login'

**************************

A fresh install of MetalK8s has a GUI instance with default credentials:
``admin`` / ``admin``. For more information on how to access the GUI, please
refer to :ref:`this procedure <quickstart-services-admin-ui>`

Changing MetalK8s GUI username and password
-------------------------------------------

#. From the Bootstrap node, edit the file ``/etc/kubernetes/htpasswd``
   replacing the username and password fields as below.

   .. code-block:: shell

      new_username,new_password,123,"system:masters"

> #. From the Bootstrap node, re-configure the Kubernetes API server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. From the Bootstrap node, force a restart of the Kubernetes API server.
```

Reviewer: Now that I think of it, running it on the Bootstrap node only won't be sufficient if there are multiple `master` nodes.

Author: Yes, I agree!
As of now, there isn't any better approach. Maybe we wait for the Dex integration since it is something planned in the roadmap for the next iteration.

Reviewer: Well, we could do something using Salt I guess. For now, let's just add a note mentioning this issue (procedure to repeat on each node hosting an API server instance).

Account Administration
======================

This section highlights **MetalK8s Account Administration** which covers
changing the default username and password for some MetalK8s services.

Administering Grafana
*********************

A fresh install of MetalK8s has a Grafana service instance with default
credentials: ``admin`` / ``admin``. For more information on how to access
Grafana, please refer to :ref:`this procedure <quickstart-services-grafana>`

Changing Grafana username and password
--------------------------------------

To change the default username and password for Grafana on a MetalK8s cluster,
perform the following procedures:

#. Create a file named ``patch-secret.yaml`` that has the following content:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      stringData:

>         admin-password: <password-in-clear>

Reviewer 3: I'd switch these 2 lines around. People think 'username', 'password'. Too easy to now use the wrong value in the wrong place now.

        admin-user: <password-in-clear>

#. Apply the patch file by running:

   .. code-block:: shell

>       $ kubectl patch secrets prometheus-operator-grafana --patch "$(cat patch-secret.yml)" -n metalk8s-monitoring

Reviewer 4: Should we add the kubeconfig directly in each and every command line that use kubectl ?
 `--kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf`

#. Now, roll out the new updates for Grafana.

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf rollout restart deploy prometheus-operator-grafana -n metalk8s-monitoring

#. Access the Grafana instance and authenticate yourself using the new Account
   credentials.

> Administering MetalK8s GUI, Kubernetes(K8S) and Salt API

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Administering MetalK8s GUI, Kubernetes and Salt API
```

********************************************************

A fresh install of MetalK8s has a GUI instance with default credentials:
``admin`` / ``admin``. For more information on how to access the GUI, please
refer to :ref:`this procedure <quickstart-services-admin-ui>`

> Managing MetalK8s GUI, K8S and Salt API username and password

Reviewer 3: The way it's written could make one assume the UI *has* its own username/password, which is not true. Similarly, Salt doesn't have a username/password, but uses K8s as an auth backend.

So, where the current writing makes one believe you're talking about three distinct username/password combinations, there's really only one.

-------------------------------------------------------------

  .. warning::

     #. In a typical **Metalk8s** cluster, ``/etc/kubernetes/htpasswd``
        provides access control credentials to the following 3 components:

>         **MetalK8s GUI**, **K8S** and **Salt API**. Any changes made to this

Reviewer 3: See comment above. This can be confusing, because

- what's a non-typical cluster and how would thing work there?
- That file only contains access credentials to the K8s API. UI doesn't have any creds/access control itself, and SaltAPI federates access to the K8s API.

        file will directly impact authentication for the 3 mentioned components.

>      #. The procedures mentioned below must be carried out on every cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     #. The procedures mentioned below must be carried out on every control-plane node in cluster
```

        node having an instance of the Kubernetes API server.

> #. From a node running an instance of the Kubernetes API server,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. On every control-plane node,
```

   edit the file ``/etc/kubernetes/htpasswd`` replacing the
   username and/or password fields as below.

   .. code-block:: shell

>       <username-in-clear>,<password-in-clear>,123,"system:masters"

Reviewer 5: @Ebaneck @TeddyAndrieux  Maybe I did something wrong but to make it work, first param has to be password and second is the user.
@carlito-scality actually I am guessing it is a bug on the UI side no?

Reviewer 4: Hmm yes I think it's an issue on the UI side then

Reviewer 3: Why would that be 'an issue on the UI side'? The UI never accesses this file.

Reviewer 5: I am guessing when you enter something in username field in the UI, it is used as a password and what you put in password field is used as a username

Reviewer 4: Yes right it's the password for kubernetes basic auth, so why this one is `<password>:<user>` when auth in the UI :confused:

Reviewer 6: I checked the UI code of login. I don't think we inversed the username and password there :/

Reviewer 3: Well, the doc is wrong: the format must be

```
password,user,uid,"group1,group2,group3"
```

https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#static-password-file

So, if you'd put `username,password,123,"system:masters"` in the file, the declaration is wrong, and the UI would appear to be 'wrong' whilst it's right.

Reviewer: Oh OK

> #. From a node running an instance of the Kubernetes API server,

Reviewer 3: Not *a* node, the node on which the file was changed, and so on for every node.

   force a restart of the Kubernetes API server.

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ crictl stop $(crictl ps -q --label io.kubernetes.pod.namespace=kube-system --label io.kubernetes.container.name=kube-apiserver --state Running)

> #. Access the service for example; MetalK8s GUI and authenticate yourself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Access a service (for example, MetalK8s GUI) and authenticate yourself
```

> #. Access a service (for example, MetalK8s GUI) and authenticate yourself

Reviewer 3: Mixing use of `MetalK8s UI` and `MetalK8s GUI` throughout the document.

   using the new Account credentials.

   .. note::

      Upon changing the username and/or password, a fresh logout then login is

>       required for continuous access to the MetalK8s GUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      required for accessing the MetalK8s GUI.
```
